<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="how_to_prepare_for_the_world_cup_season">
    <title>How to prepare for the World Cup season</title>
    <shortdesc>An imaginary interview with Aksel Lund Svindal on how to prepare for a World Cup
        season.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <section id="section_mcc_dc1_qgc">
            <p><b>Daniel Stach:</b>Aksel, what’s the most important part of preparing for a World Cup season?</p>
            <p><b>Aksel Lund Svindal:</b>The foundation is physical training. You can’t race if your body isn’t ready to handle the forces and speed of World Cup skiing. In the summer, I focused a lot on endurance, strength, and explosiveness—everything from long bike rides to heavy weight sessions. But equally important is recovery: sleep, nutrition, and listening to your body. Many young skiers think more is always better, but quality beats quantity. If you’re consistent, by the time the snow comes, you’ll have the base you need to perform.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <p><b>DS:</b>How should young athletes think about technical preparation?</p>
            <p><b>ALS:</b>Technical work is about building habits. At your stage, don’t worry too much about the “perfect” setup or chasing hundredths of a second. Focus on skiing clean, efficient turns and learning to adapt to different conditions. On the World Cup, snow changes from one course to the next, so versatility is key. If you develop that now, it’ll serve you later when the margins are tiny.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <p><b>DS:</b>What role does mental preparation play?</p>
            <p><b>ALS:</b>Mental preparation is huge. You can be in top shape physically, but if your head isn’t ready, it’s tough to deliver. I used visualization a lot—I’d picture myself skiing a course, turn by turn, feeling the rhythm. For young athletes, the main thing is to enjoy the process and not let pressure take over. Nerves are normal; the trick is to use them as energy, not let them block you.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <p><b>DS:</b>Any advice for juniors dreaming of racing at the World Cup one day?</p>
            <p><b>ALS:</b>Be patient. Development isn’t linear—there are setbacks, injuries, bad races. That’s part of the journey. Don’t compare yourself too much to others; instead, focus on improving step by step. And most importantly, remember why you started: because skiing is fun. If you keep that passion, it will carry you through the tough moments and make the successes even sweeter.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
