<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="how_to_improve_your_curving">
    <title>How to improve your curving</title>
    <shortdesc>Simple step-by-step guidance on how to make your curving work, at least a
        bit...</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>This procedure will help you improve your curving technique if you have already
            tried it and know the basic idea behind it, but when on the slope, you are still somehow
            unable to perform it well. To get familiar with the concept of curving technique itself,
            please find the another topic.</context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Don't start on some easy peasy slope to train a bit. Instead, pick the blackest
                    slope you see around you, as curving simply work only from a certain degree of
                    tilt.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Start skiing, gain some speed, but keep your curves well-managed and
                    long-shaped.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Stop trying to work out your curves only by thee work of your legs and knees.
                    Instead. try to incline your whole body on the slope surface, while keeping the
                    axis of your body as straight as possible.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Push your body closer and closer to the surface with every new curve. In the
                    end, imagine that you want to slap the slope with your elbow.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>If you succeed in it, you will definitely feel the edges of your ski cut into
                    the snow when curving...</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
